Youtube Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTDZOZDZd6cWlFF_0Hx6_C1jVx2pC40JX

What are Parameters in Large Language Models (LLMs)
---------------------------------------------
LLM parameters refer to the internal weights and values that a large language model (LLM) 
learns during training. These parameters often numbering in billions are used to capture patterns 
in language such as grammar, meaning, context and relationships between words. 
The more parameters a model has, the more capacity it typically has to understand and generate 
better and complex output making them a core factor in the model’s performance and complexity.

Parameters in Large Language Models (LLMs)

1. Temperature
Temperature controls the randomness or creativity in the output generation.
A high temperature makes the model more diverse and creative while a low temperature produces more focused 
and deterministic responses.
This parameter is specially important for tasks requiring creative generation like poetry or story writing.

2. Max Tokens
This parameter limits the maximum number of tokens the model can generate in response.
It's an important parameter for controlling the length of the generated output ensuring that 
it stays within a defined range whether for more comprehensive content.

3. Top-p (Nucleus Sampling)
Top-p helps control the diversity of text by focusing on the top p probability mass when selecting the next token.
For example, with a top-p value of 0.9 the model will select from the most probable tokens that make up 90% 
of the total probability distribution ensuring output is both coherent and varied.

4. Presence Penalty
Presence penalty discourages the model from repeating the same words or concepts in the generated text.
This parameter helps to avoid repetitive output and promotes diversity in the language specially useful 
for longer text generations like articles or dialogues.

5. Frequency Penalty
Frequency penalty reduces the likelihood of the model repeatedly using common words.
By applying this penalty the model is encouraged to avoid generating repetitive phrases 
ensuring the text remains fresh and engaging.

6. Top-k
Top-k restricts the model’s choice to the k most likely tokens for the next word. 
For example, with top-k = 50, the model only considers the 50 most probable tokens at each step, 
ignoring all others. Here Low k means output is more predictable and focused 
and High k means output is more varied but still coherent.

-------------------------
What is LangChain?

LangChain is a framework that helps developers build applications powered by Large Language Models (LLMs).

It provides components like:

LLMs – GPT, Claude, etc.

Chains – sequence of operations

Tools – external capabilities (search, calculator, database)

Agents – LLMs that decide which tools to use

Memory – conversation context

Agent Concept

An Agent is an LLM that can:

Understand a user query

Decide what tool to use

Execute the tool

Return the result

Example:

User:

What is the square root of 625?

Agent reasoning:

Needs calculation

Uses calculator tool

Returns result

---------------------
What Are Tools in LangChain?

Tools are functions that agents can call.

Examples:

calculator

web search

database query

API call

Creating a Simple Tool
--------------------------
from langchain.tools import tool

@tool
def multiply_numbers(a: int, b: int) -> int:
    """Multiply two numbers"""
    return a * b

Explanation:

@tool converts Python function into agent tool
docstring describes when to use it

------------------------------
FAISS stands for Facebook AI Similarity Search. It is an open-source library developed by Meta's Facebook AI Research team 
designed for efficient similarity search and clustering of dense vectors, capable of handling large-scale, high-dimensional data on both CPU and GPU. 

Key Aspects of FAISS:
Purpose: It searches for vectors that are similar to a query vector, crucial for recommendation systems, search engines, and image/text retrieval.
Scale: It can handle datasets containing millions or billions of vectors.
Performance: It provides high-speed similarity search, often utilizing approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) algorithms, and supports GPU acceleration.
Not a Database: FAISS is a library for searching vectors, not a full-fledged database with native storage, metadata, or data management

-------------------
hub.pull("hwchase17/react") downloads a pre-built ReAct prompt template from LangChain Hub — a public registry of reusable prompts hosted at smith.langchain.com/hub.
Breaking it down:

hwchase17 — the GitHub username of Harrison Chase, co-founder of LangChain. He published this prompt.
react — the prompt implements the ReAct (Reasoning + Acting) pattern.

What the prompt actually contains:
It gives the LLM a strict format to follow on every step:
Thought:   I need to figure out what 6 × 7 is
Action:    multiply_numbers
Action Input: 6, 7
Observation: 42
Thought:   I now know the final answer
Final Answer: 42

The LLM is instructed to loop through Thought → Action → Observation until it has enough information to give a Final Answer. 
LangChain's AgentExecutor parses each step, calls the appropriate tool when it sees an Action, 
feeds the result back as Observation, and keeps looping.

Why pull it instead of writing it yourself?
You could write this prompt manually, but hub.pull saves you from:

Getting the exact format tokens wrong (LangChain's parser is strict about keywords like Action Input:)
Managing the {tools}, {tool_names}, {agent_scratchpad} placeholders yourself — the template handles all of these automatically

In short: it's the instruction manual that teaches the LLM how to be an agent — without it, 
the LLM would just respond like a chatbot with no awareness of the tools available to it.

streamlit run .\eleven_sa_fa_ta_trade_streamlit.py